README.md, before:

# RITA Scripts
Thanks to Active Countermeasures RITA Tool for Zeek/Bro

- https://github.com/activecm/rita
- https://github.com/zeek


 Here are a collection of scripts to make it easier to extract more intelligence from RITA output.


### Finding the AS number of hosts with high beacon scores
- doing reverse lookups on the beacons is a pain and often doesn't return anything interesting. 
- This is a quick script to let you narrow down beaconish originators using the AS number, which is more stable.

As in this example many things that look beaconish are actually DNS calls or Corporate Services. 


```
for x in `rita show-beacons myhost|grep -v Source |awk -F, '{if ($1 > .8) print $3}'`; do echo "$x: $(whois -h whois.cymru.com " -v $x"| grep -v BGP)"; done
8.8.8.8: 15169   | 8.8.8.8          | 8.8.8.0/24          | US | arin     | 1992-12-01 | GOOGLE, US
208.67.222.222: 36692   | 208.67.222.222   | 208.67.222.0/24     | US | arin     | 2006-06-06 | OPENDNS, US
17.57.144.181: 714     | 17.57.144.181    | 17.57.144.0/22      | US | arin     | 1990-04-16 | APPLE-ENGINEERING, US
198.252.206.25: 25791   | 198.252.206.25   | 198.252.206.0/24    | US | arin     | 2012-10-17 | SE-NET, US
52.38.194.37: 16509   | 52.38.194.37     | 52.36.0.0/14        | US | arin     | 2015-09-02 | AMAZON-02, US
172.217.14.227: 15169   | 172.217.14.227   | 172.217.14.0/24     | US | arin     | 2012-04-16 | GOOGLE, US
17.57.144.181: 714     | 17.57.144.181    | 17.57.144.0/22      | US | arin     | 1990-04-16 | APPLE-ENGINEERING, US
17.57.144.180: 714     | 17.57.144.180    | 17.57.144.0/22      | US | arin     | 1990-04-16 | APPLE-ENGINEERING, US
34.214.241.122: 16509   | 34.214.241.122   | 34.208.0.0/12       | US | arin     | 2016-09-12 | AMAZON-02, US
52.37.150.23: 16509   | 52.37.150.23     | 52.36.0.0/14        | US | arin     | 2015-09-02 | AMAZON-02, US
35.165.114.190: 16509   | 35.165.114.190   | 35.160.0.0/13       | US | arin     | 2016-08-09 | AMAZON-02, US
54.244.7.161: 16509   | 54.244.7.161     | 54.244.0.0/18       | US | arin     | 2011-12-09 | AMAZON-02, US
216.58.193.67: 15169   | 216.58.193.67    | 216.58.192.0/22     | US | arin     | 2012-01-27 | GOOGLE, US
...
```

## Notebooks
**Evaluating traffic on an external webserver**  
Watching public traffic to see if a local c2 has been installed and determine which regions are accessing services.

TODO:
- add a score if an IP has a DNS entry
- add a score if an IP is correctly configured with a reverse
- sum and sort by score to determine mystery nodes vs "well mannered" nodes
- incorporate fail2ban and weblogs to make connection analysis more coherent (high f2b scores bump up malicious determinition)

**Evaluating traffic from a home LAN**  
Here we want to mostly determine beacon-like normal services (DNS to known providers), callbacks to corporate services we expect (Apple, Microsoft, Google, etc) and others to narrow down what likely C2 or non-expected traffic is egressing. 

TODO:
- formalize True Positives
- extract report from connections

### Exporatory Data Analysis of external traffic

Here are a few examples of visualizing what the state of the connections look like. 
- by AS
- by Country
- Relative percentage of traffic connection duration
- Relative percentage of traffic that gets classified as a beacon by RITA
- types of protocols, etc


- What AS Regions are generating the most connections?  

![as connections by country](as_connections_by_country.png)

- What is the relative occurance of high percentage beaconish activity?  
![beaconality histogram](high_beacon_traffic_histogram.png)

Commit message:

added features: src, dst to ptr and dns entries. Added fail2ban. fixed correlation heatmap

README.md, after:

# RITA Scripts
Thanks to Active Countermeasures RITA Tool for Zeek/Bro

- https://github.com/activecm/rita
- https://github.com/zeek


 Here are a collection of scripts to make it easier to extract more intelligence from RITA output.


### Finding the AS number of hosts with high beacon scores
- doing reverse lookups on the beacons is a pain and often doesn't return anything interesting. 
- This is a quick script to let you narrow down beaconish originators using the AS number, which is more stable.

As in this example many things that look beaconish are actually DNS calls or Corporate Services. 


```
for x in `rita show-beacons myhost|grep -v Source |awk -F, '{if ($1 > .8) print $3}'`; do echo "$x: $(whois -h whois.cymru.com " -v $x"| grep -v BGP)"; done
8.8.8.8: 15169   | 8.8.8.8          | 8.8.8.0/24          | US | arin     | 1992-12-01 | GOOGLE, US
208.67.222.222: 36692   | 208.67.222.222   | 208.67.222.0/24     | US | arin     | 2006-06-06 | OPENDNS, US
17.57.144.181: 714     | 17.57.144.181    | 17.57.144.0/22      | US | arin     | 1990-04-16 | APPLE-ENGINEERING, US
198.252.206.25: 25791   | 198.252.206.25   | 198.252.206.0/24    | US | arin     | 2012-10-17 | SE-NET, US
52.38.194.37: 16509   | 52.38.194.37     | 52.36.0.0/14        | US | arin     | 2015-09-02 | AMAZON-02, US
172.217.14.227: 15169   | 172.217.14.227   | 172.217.14.0/24     | US | arin     | 2012-04-16 | GOOGLE, US
17.57.144.181: 714     | 17.57.144.181    | 17.57.144.0/22      | US | arin     | 1990-04-16 | APPLE-ENGINEERING, US
17.57.144.180: 714     | 17.57.144.180    | 17.57.144.0/22      | US | arin     | 1990-04-16 | APPLE-ENGINEERING, US
34.214.241.122: 16509   | 34.214.241.122   | 34.208.0.0/12       | US | arin     | 2016-09-12 | AMAZON-02, US
52.37.150.23: 16509   | 52.37.150.23     | 52.36.0.0/14        | US | arin     | 2015-09-02 | AMAZON-02, US
35.165.114.190: 16509   | 35.165.114.190   | 35.160.0.0/13       | US | arin     | 2016-08-09 | AMAZON-02, US
54.244.7.161: 16509   | 54.244.7.161     | 54.244.0.0/18       | US | arin     | 2011-12-09 | AMAZON-02, US
216.58.193.67: 15169   | 216.58.193.67    | 216.58.192.0/22     | US | arin     | 2012-01-27 | GOOGLE, US
...
```

## Notebooks
**Evaluating traffic on an external webserver**  
Watching public traffic to see if a local c2 has been installed and determine which regions are accessing services.

- added a feature if an IP has a DNS entry or is correctly configured with a reverse
- incorporated fail2ban entries

TODO:
- sum and sort by score to determine mystery nodes vs "well mannered" nodes
- summarize into dashboard

**Evaluating traffic from a home LAN**  
Here we want to mostly determine beacon-like normal services (DNS to known providers), callbacks to corporate services we expect (Apple, Microsoft, Google, etc) and others to narrow down what likely C2 or non-expected traffic is egressing. 

TODO:
- formalize True Positives
- extract report from connections

### Exporatory Data Analysis of external traffic

Here are a few examples of visualizing what the state of the connections look like. 
- by AS
- by Country
- Relative percentage of traffic connection duration
- Relative percentage of traffic that gets classified as a beacon by RITA
- types of protocols, etc


- What AS Regions are generating the most connections?  

![as connections by country](as_connections_by_country.png)

- What is the relative occurance of high percentage beaconish activity?  
![beaconality histogram](high_beacon_traffic_histogram.png)
